equipment engineering technician professional summary skilled maintenance mechanic technician with superb problem solving and multi-tasking skills. self-directed and motivated worker. to obtain a position where teamwork, integrity and proffesionalism are a high standard in the companys mission statement. all while engaing in new challenges and learning experiences. skills 20 years of material management experience with state and federal government 13 years of law enforcement experience with the united states marine corps and army national guard. knowledge of mechanical test equipment. work from written/verbal instructions, schematics, rough sketches, troubleshooting diagrams, layouts and plans, interpretation and application of technical knowledge and understanding of mechanical theory and principles. work history equipment engineering technician 05/2014 to current company name city , state proficient in the use of pcs, ms office, 10key by touch and customer service skills. forklift and crane certified self motivated to lead and achieve company goals with excellence, integrity and efficiency. ndt level ii knowledge on mechanical, pneumatic and hydraulic theory and principles responsibility for designing/selecting robotic systems, run simulation, implementation, commission and programming. support and assist maintenance team in troubleshooting difficult breakdowns and chronic equipment failures. conduct the installation of factory automation and electrical control systems for manufacturing equipment provide troubleshooting of electrical systems in plant manufacturing equipment provide effective direction, coaching, and ojt to fellow employees on shift to boost their skill sets, and help production achieve their goals. plan and organize between shift and weekend work, including verification, for smooth operations. assist the supervisor in developing pms and procedures for maintaining all of the equipment in the shop. provide shift- to-shift communication in order to keep all associates up to speed and working toward the same goals. set an example, and ensure that all associates comply with safety regulations and the plants safety program. work with engineers and fellow technicians to resolve technical problems. assist in candidate selection as requested. maintain departmental records maintain spare parts inventory. identify and order needed parts, maintain tracking system. perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor and manager. mechanical technician 04/2013 to 05/2014 company name city , state implement repair services on all production equipment, auxiliary equipment and building equipment using hand tools, testing tools, manual drawings, computer and any other tools necessary to accomplish the task. provide reliable, high quality customer support through on-site inspecting, installing, repairing and/or replacing fire alarm equipment as well as conducting preventive maintenance services pertaining to many different manufacturers equipment. ensure conveyor belts working effectively operating engineer / test technician 11/2007 to 06/2012 company name city , state operates, repair and maintain facility/plant machinery, test equipment, lubrication and cooling systems and high pressure systems for nasa unitary wind tunnels. constructs, modifies, maintains and services wind and propulsion tunnel research facilities used to test models of aircraft components, utilizing knowledge of engineering test methods and procedures. installs and aligns mechanical hydraulic and pneumatic test equipment and models on support structures. installs instrumentation, thermocouples and pressure taps on model and test equipment. inspects test setup and operates equipment to detect and correct malfunctions. maintains instrumentation equipment and accessories for pressure valves, icing indicators, drive units, spray units, and pumps. confers with engineering and other personnel during testing and modifies model, test support structure, or test equipment as directed. inspect, test, and install fire sprinkler systems, standpipe systems, fire pumps, and clean agent systems at various industrial, commercial and institutional facilities in accordance with various codes. perform inspections, test and repair/replace fire hoses and fire hydrants. generate reports based on inspection findings. logistics coordinator / sr. lab technician 10/2006 to 11/2007 company name city , state coordinates all incoming and outgoing shipments of solar arrays, panels, shipping containers and ground support equipment. interfaces with metrology personnel to ensure calibrated equipment needs are prioritized and maintains inventory of the sections calibrated equipment. supports work in progress, troubleshoots manufacturing problems caused by test equipment. coordinates proof loading and non-destructive testing of lifting fixtures and handling equipment. maintains inventory of industrial supplies. disposes of hazardous materials and coordinates area compliance. understands and follows the 20 elements of iso 9001. production control analyst 11/2004 to 05/2006 company name city , state expedites materials through production processes, coordinates actions with other departments, verifies kit hardware completeness and configuration, requests drawings and materials to be issued from stores. resolves aging work orders, generates non-conforming material reports (ncmrs). interfaces with process engineers, manufacturing operators and supervisors to control and analyze the movement of production. resolves complex constraints for any wip that may cause schedule delays, problem solve all audit issue on work centers. perform internal and external expediting of critical parts and initiate and process scrap tags, and process miscellaneous issue requests. extensive use of the promis software. trains new hires in class 100 clean room protocol and enforces violations. procurement of all clean room articles and consumables with outside vendors. supervises courier team of 5 to ensure proper transport of company assets from site to site. material/production planner 07/2001 to 02/2004 company name city , state expedites materials through production processes, coordinates actions with other departments, verifies kit hardware completeness and configuration, requests drawings and materials to be issued from stores. resolves aging work orders, generates non-conforming material reports (ncmrs), and generates shipping packing lists and invoice documents. responsible for scheduling, releasing, updating, and closing work orders in a timely manner. reports oral and written status of work progress to internal customers. interfaces with all operations functions education general courses : monterey peninsula college - city , state technical diploma : san francisco police academy - city , state accomplishments writes dsns for over shipment, wrong parts, and or no certification. completes memo receivers for parts with no po reference or those returned for repair. coordinates efficient flow of materials and analyzes required capacity in processes with involved departments to ensure a smooth and timely operation. extensive use in all microsoft office applications and the following software: wds, lss, cavs ii. skills automation, closing, coaching, oral, hardware, customer support, designing, direction, hand tools, inventory, iso 9001, machinery, materials, mechanical, personnel, processes, procurement, programming, progress, quality, quality control, receiving, repairs, repairing, research, robotic systems, safety, scheduling, shipping, simulation, supervisor, test equipment, troubleshooting, written, articles