information technology manager professional summary possesses an extensive background in information technology management, along with a masters of science degree and multiple certifications. excels in planning, implementing, and evaluating the systems, infrastructure, and staffing necessary to execute complex initiatives and meet deadlines in dynamic, fast-paced environments; adept at overseeing and participating in the installation, configuration, maintenance, and upgrade of networks, hardware, servers, and peripherals. detail-oriented and decisive; applies communication and leadership skills to interface effectively with all levels of an organization. expertise spans: network engineering, helpdesk administration, software licensing, disaster recovery, backup/restore operations/project management, strategic planning/analysis, budgeting, teambuilding/training, vendor relations policy/procedure development, quality assurance, troubleshooting, problem solving, process improvement. experience 04/2013 to current information technology manager company name city , state a bankruptcy trustee office handling chapter 13 and chapter 12 cases for the northern district of georgia manages application database/hardware systems used to track chapter 13 bankruptcy cases, all office technologies,, information systems, and anti-spam/anti- virus servers. evaluates, recommends, implements, supports, and troubleshoots hardware and software. maintains lan/wan infrastructure, connectivity, and security as well as lan user documentation. performs disaster recovery planning. administers licenses and service contracts; schedules service visits from vendors and suppliers. defines, documents, assesses, and updates it-related procedures as needed. creates and maintains user accounts, including email. inspects all employees computers quarterly to ensure compliance of configuration and settings with office policies. coordinates special projects. designed and implemented network infrastructure enhancements to improve performance, security, remote access, and connectivity. standardized hardware, peripherals, and software. established a helpdesk support system for monitoring, prioritizing, and scheduling requests. spearheaded the deployment of a new tracking system that provided performance metrics used to identify where additional training and resources were required. researched, installed, and configured an enterprise backup solution for disaster recovery that included features to allow users to recover deleted items without the need to recover from dr backups. doubled wan bandwidth and propelled lan and wlan performance to 100% or higher through wan, lan, and wlan reconfiguration. improved accuracy, more than doubled efficiency from 35% to 87%, and increased cost savings from $250/quarter to $2,500/quarter by developing an automated script for retrieving data from an outside server. automated asset tracking by employing a hand scanner and database system to improve efficiency and accuracy. 08/1987 to 06/2012 network analyst company name city , state a $1b+ global manufacturer of equipment for precision material dispensing, testing, inspection, surface preparation, and curing fueled a 1,000% improvement in lan performance by replacing the existing network, which entailed changing software and lan cabling for 20 existing switches, including reconfiguring the core switch with remote wiring closets with multiple stack units. led a team of five network and equipment support specialists.configured, maintained, analyzed, and troubleshot nortel and juniper networks, systems, and equipment (wan/lan/wlan infrastructure, servers, pcs, notebooks, thin clients, printers, and other peripherals) used by 600 workers in georgia.supported 200 units configured for operation through client servers.advanced global company objectives through participation in it and telecom design and implementation.advanced to this role through promotions from mechanical drafter, engineering checker, mechanical designer, and network administrator.slashed support requests 75%, cut equipment costs 50%, and boosted work productivity 30% by applying near-zero configuration to develop, install, and implement a thin client solution for 90 plant manufacturing cells. reduced standard company imaging and system deployment time 60% before station-specific customization by replacing and/or refreshing 40 pcs each quarter, 100% on schedule. planned, designed, installed, configured, and tested wireless networks (wlan from cisco, nortel, and meraki) in multiple facilities; documented standards for us operations; trained users; and monitored performance. replaced 125 field and service laptops by programming standard images and custom configurations on each machine, completing the six- week project on schedule despite disruption of parts availability due to a tsunami. championed the use of computers in manufacturing cells to provide drawings and also facilitate order tracking in conjunction with the erp system; designed and implemented automated pick list and shipping documents as well as real-time tracking for distribution. trained and mentored 15 new department staff members and contractors. 02/1753 designer/drafter company name city , state plant manager/quality control manager company name city , state drafter company name city , state accomplishments microsoft word/excel/access/outlook/powerpoint/visio/publisher/project, apple pages, numbers, keynote, autodesk, autocad, microsoft word/excel/access/outlook/powerpoint/visio/publisher/project, apple pages, numbers, keynote, autodesk, autocad, solidworks, sap r3 operating systems: microsoft sql, microsoft exchange, sccm, dos 6.22, windows 3.1-windows 10, windows nt 3.5 server, windows server 2012, osx , ios hardware and wlan: nortel, mitel, shortel, cisco, meraki, apple airport, palo alto-firewall, sonicwall firewall peripherals: barracuda web filter, barracuda message archiver, riverbed-wan accelerator, dell iscsi san installation and configuration: dell powervault, adtran routers, cisco routers, catalyst switches, hp procurve switches, icc patch panels, cross connects, cat3-6a (phone and data) education master of science : leadership walden university city , state 2015 master of science : information systems management project management walden university city , state 2013 bachelor of science : information systems management mechanical engineering walden university city , state certifications mcp, comptia network+, comptia a+ skills anti-virus, backup, cabling, cisco, hardware, contracts, client, clients, database, disaster recovery planning, disaster recovery, email, erp, features, imaging, information systems, inspection, inspects, lan, notebooks, laptops, mechanical, access, office, enterprise, network administrator, network, networks, nortel, peripherals, pick, policies, printers, programming, real-time, scanner, scheduling, servers, script, shipping, switches, switch, user documentation, telecom, wan, wiring